# Excel / VBA Projects
<p> There are several VBA projects I have done to show how I can make information management and acquisition more convenient. User must ensure that their Excel is Macro enabled to view the user forms in these files. </p> 
<ul> 
  <li>
  Monte Carlo Simulation Project
  </li> 
  <p> A Monte Carlo simulation aims to simulate the possible pathway of a future endeavor, experiment, or process, given multiple inputs that each have uncertainty.  It is oftentimes used by financial planners to try to predict what might happen in the future.  Inputs to financial planning processes include probabilities of how the stock market might do, projections for various costs and amount of sales, and many other financial variables. In this project, I made a user form that allows the users to simulate a profitability analysis based on net present value (NPV) of a proposed capital. See file <strong> Monte Carlo Simulation.xlsm</strong>. </p>
  <br>
  <li>
    Information Organizer Project
  </li>
  <p> I created a VBA user form that will: 1) allow the user to add or delete new categories (user-defined) to a data table (these would be the columns/column headings) on a main worksheet, 2) allow the user to add or delete records (a row of a table), and 3) allow the user to look up different categories for a record (basically searching through the data and outputting a specific user-defined category) with the option of replacing those items. See file <strong> Info Organizer.xlsm</strong>. </p> 
  <br>
  <li> 
    Currency Converter Project
  </li>
  <p> I created from the ground up a user form that will enable one to use real-time exchange rates to convert currency from one unit to another.  You will automate a data query in Excel, and link the results to an easy-to-use VBA user form.  The default date for the currency exchange is the current date, but you should be able to enter in any historic date (within reason) to obtain the exchange rates/converted values for times in the past.  Finally, your user form should generate a plot of exchange rates over the past 30 days. The file is <strong> converter.xlsm</strong>. </p>
  <br>
  <li>
    Files Reader Project
  </li>
  <p> I created a VBA subroutine that will iterate through a set of files to bring in data from those files into a central spreadsheet.  Within this folder  “Ralphie Reactor” there are 24 .csv files, which are generated by a (hypothetical) bioreactor. This project can automate the import of these 24 hourly summary files into a single main file. See file <strong> File reader.xlsm</strong> and folder <strong> Ralphie Reactor</strong>. </p>
